Renovation Plan


General preparation

1. Do measure of the walls and floor to know how many materials we need
2. Do a list of what tools we will need and check that we have them.
3. Browse the websites of stores for some promo. This way we can save some extra money on renovation. 
4. Purchase of materials and eventually tools that we don't have.



Room preparation

[FLOOR]
1. If we have floor panels and we want to replace them we need to take all furniture out of the room. Otherwise take small furniture out of the room and big furniture move to the center of the room. Furniture which has been left we need to protect by special foil against damage. 

[WALLS]
1. If we have wallpaper and we want to replace it, we need to tear off old wallpaper. One of the ways is get the wall wet and wait when will gets soften. Next, we tear wallpaper by the corner. If it is going tough use a small spatula. 



Realization

[FLOOR]
1. Firstly, we lay the underlay for the floor panels.
2. Next, we lay floor panels. We should start from the corner of the room. Please note that we should place them perpendicular to the window. Depending on the type of panels we should follow manufacturer 's recommendations. The laying process can be difference. Sometimes panels won't fit so we will need to cut them. Be careful with this type of actions.
3. When we end, we can start floor strip montage.


[WALLS - PAINTING]
1. If we will be painting our room, we need to cover our floor and furniture by special foil. Other things like sockets, lightning, or the edges of the ceiling we secure with paint tape.
2. We open the package with paint and mix it.
3. Next, we pour a little paint into the painting tray.
4. Moisten the roller/brush with water and take the paint from the painting tray.
5. Painting.
6. When the wall is dry and the final effect will not satisfactory us, we paint again. (usually 2-3 layers are enough)
7. Next, we also paint the ceiling to make effect better. (Also 2-3 layers)
[WALLS - WALLPAPERING]
1. If we will be going to wallpapering our room, we need to prepare a station to applying wallpaper glue.
2. We prepare the glue according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. Next, we measure the height of the wall to match how much wallpaper we need.
4. We cut the wallpaper and put the glue.
5. Now we adjust the wallpaper to the wall and delete any air bubbles.
6. We repeat all steps till to end of wallpapering our room.


Cleaning

1. We tear off secure foil and paint tape from items which we covered.
2. Next, we vacuum and clean the floor.
3. Move our furniture to their places.
4. We clean tools and put them back in their places.
5. We throw away empty packages, used foil and other waste that was created during the renovation. Remember about ecology and waste segregation.
